here's a variation of the bullseye I
kind of like this one because it gives
you even a more dramatic spiral effect
so we'll take our four pieces of dough
flatten them out and we can even flatten
them with a rolling pin again gently no
thinner than a quarter of an inch if you
go any thinner than a quarter of an inch
you end up with tough dough you want to
give enough dough for it to be able to
puff it will double in size eventually
so a quarter of an inch becomes half an
inch in the finished loaf but an eighth
of an inch only becomes a quarter of an
inch so that's a little bit too tough
but we're gonna get these pieces
together get them approximately the same
size as disks and this happens very very
quickly and as I said earlier I want the
lightest piece to be on the outside wrap
so I'm gonna take a light piece a dark
piece a light and a dark so now we've
got instead of two pieces of light and
dark we've got four I'm gonna flatten
that out you can even use your rolling
pin a little bit to kind of pinch them
together another reason why I don't like
to use a lot of dusting flour here is
that it will tend to make it less
adherent flatten it out square it off
and roll it up and as you get to the end
kind of pull that last piece to square
it so that you get a nice spiral effect
all the way through you can see already
some of it from the darker side coming
out and that's alright that just gives
it a nice interesting personality and
we've got ourselves a loaf that could
either be baked in a pan or in a sheet
pan just so you can see again the
contrast I'm going to cut this
once again a really interesting pattern
it's kind of the pinwheel or spiral
effect now we could make two loaves out
of this I just cut it in half or we can
put it back together again we could even
cut this into four pieces and braid them
and get the sort of spiral braid there's
no end of permutations of what you can
do to create interesting patterns we
could cut these into rolls and turn them
into dinner rolls anything you want to
do I'm going to go ahead and stick these
back together again and I'm gonna put
this one on our sheet pan with the
braided loaf just to contrast it with
the one that went in the loaf pan and
show you that even a petard shaped loaf
can be big freestanding like that you
can see how it kind of healed together
as I as I closed that later on when we
go to bake it we could put cuts in there
unlike the baguettes where we put long
cuts with rye breads you tend to put
more horizontal cuts right across the
surface and that's just basically a
traditional difference between the wheat
breads and the rye breads as rye breads
tend to have short horizontal cuts the
wheat breads like lean hearth breads
long very sort of elongated cuts but
here's an example of another kind of
marbled rye
you